## Contributor License Agreement

This Contributor License Agreement (“**Agreement**”) conveys certain license rights to Progressive Casualty Insurance Company and its affiliates (“**Progressive**”) for Your Submissions to Progressive open source Projects. This Agreement is effective as of the signature date below.

In order to clarify the intellectual property license granted with Submissions from any person or entity, Progressive requires a Contributor License Agreement (“**CLA**”) on file that has been signed by each person making a Submission, indicating agreement to the license terms below. This license is for your protection as well as the protection of Progressive; it does not change your rights to use your own Submissions for any other purpose.

You accept and agree to the following terms and conditions for Your present and future Submissions Submitted to Progressive. Except for the license granted herein to Progressive and recipients of software distributed by Progressive, You reserve all right, title, and interest in and to Your Submissions.

1.  _Definitions._

    “**Code**” means the computer software code, whether in human-readable or machine-executable form, that is delivered by You to Progressive under this Agreement.

    “**Project**” means any of the projects owned or managed by Progressive in which software is offered under a license designated by Progressive and approved by the [Open Source Initiative (OSI)](https://www.opensource.org) and documentation offered under an OSI or a [Creative Commons license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses) .

    “**Submission**” means the Code and any other copyrightable material Submitted by You to Progressive for inclusion in a Project, including any associated comments and documentation.

    "**Submit**” or “**Submitted**" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent by You to Progressive or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, Progressive for the purpose of discussing and improving the Project, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by You as "Not a Submission."

    "**You**" or "**Your**" means the copyright owner or legal entity authorized by the copyright owner that is making this Agreement with Progressive.

2.  _Your Submission._ You must agree to the terms of this Agreement before making a Submission to any Project. This Agreement covers all Submissions that You, now or in the future, Submit to any Project.
3.  _Originality of Work._ You represent that each of Your Submissions is entirely Your original work. Should You wish to Submit materials that are not Your original work, You may Submit them separately to the Project if You (a) retain all copyright and license information that was in the materials as You received them; (b) in the description accompanying Your Submission, include the phrase “Submission containing materials of a third party:” followed by the names of the third party and any licenses or other restrictions of which You are aware; and (c) follow any other instructions in the Project’s written guidelines concerning Submissions. You represent that Your Submissions include complete details of any third-party license or other restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents and trademarks) of which you are aware and which are associated with any part of Your Submissions.
4.  _Your Employer._ If your employer(s) has rights to intellectual property that you create that includes your Submissions, you represent that you have received permission to make Submissions on behalf of that employer, that your employer has waived such rights for your Submissions to Progressive, or that your employer has executed a separate CLA with Progressive. In that case, the term “You” in this Agreement will refer to You and the employer collectively. If You change employers in the future and desire to Submit additional Submissions for the new employer, You agree to sign a new CLA.
5.  _Licenses._
<ol type="a" style="margin-left:20px">
  <li><i>Copyright License.</i> You hereby grant Progressive, and those who receive the Submission directly or indirectly from Progressive, a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable license in the Submission to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, and distribute the Submission and such derivative works, and to sublicense any or all of the foregoing rights to third parties.</li>
  <li><i>Patent License.</i> You hereby grant Progressive, and those who receive the Submission directly or indirectly from Progressive, a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable license under Your patent claims that are necessarily infringed by the Submission or the combination of the Submission with the Project to which it was Submitted to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, or otherwise transfer the Submission alone or with the Project. If any entity institutes patent litigation against You or any other entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that your Submission, or the Project to which you have provided a Submission, constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to that entity under this Agreement for that Submission or Project shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.</li>
  <li><i>Other Rights Reserved.</i> Each party reserves all rights not expressly granted in this Agreement. No additional licenses or rights whatsoever (including, without limitation, any implied licenses) are granted by implication, exhaustion, estoppel or otherwise.</li>
</ol>

6.  _Representations and Warranties._ You represent that You are legally entitled to grant the above licenses. You represent that each of Your Submissions is entirely Your original work (except as You may have disclosed under Section 3). You represent that You have secured permission from Your employer to make the Submission in cases where Your Submission is made in the course of Your work for Your employer or Your employer has intellectual property rights in Your Submission by contract or applicable law. If You are signing this Agreement on behalf of Your employer, You represent and warrant that You have the necessary authority to bind the listed employer to the obligations contained in this Agreement. You are not expected to provide support for Your Submission, unless You choose to do so. UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING, AND EXCEPT FOR THE WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY STATED IN SECTIONS 3, 4, AND 6, THE SUBMISSION PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTY OF NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

7.  _Notice to Progressive._ You agree to notify Progressive in writing of any facts or circumstances of which You later become aware that would make Your representations herein inaccurate in any respect.

8.  _Information about Submissions._ You agree that Submissions to Projects and information about Submissions may be maintained indefinitely and disclosed publicly, including Your name and other information that You submit with Your Submission.

9.  _Governing Law/Jurisdiction._ This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, and the parties consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the federal courts sitting in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, unless no federal subject matter jurisdiction exists, in which case the parties consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the Common Pleas Court of Cuyahoga County, Ohio. The parties waive all defenses of lack of personal jurisdiction and forum non-conveniens.

10. _Entire Agreement/Assignment._ This Agreement is the entire agreement between the parties, and supersedes any and all prior agreements, understandings or communications, written or oral, between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be assigned by Progressive.
